README.md, before:

# SenTrac - Sentiment Analytics Platform

## 🚀 Overview

**SenTrac** is a comprehensive social media sentiment analytics platform demo that showcases advanced data visualization, campaign management, and sentiment analysis capabilities. This React-based application demonstrates how modern web technologies can be used to create sophisticated analytics dashboards for social media marketing campaigns.

![SenTrac Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![Analytics](https://img.shields.io/badge/Analytics-Sentiment%20Analysis-8B5CF6?style=for-the-badge)
![Charts](https://img.shields.io/badge/Charts-Recharts-FF6B6B?style=for-the-badge)

## 📊 What This Demo Demonstrates

SenTrac is a full-featured social media campaign analytics platform that showcases:

### 🎯 Core Business Features

- **Multi-Platform Campaign Management** - Track campaigns across Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn
- **Real-Time Sentiment Analysis** - Advanced sentiment tracking with positive, neutral, and negative classifications
- **Influencer Performance Monitoring** - Track individual influencer contributions and engagement metrics
- **Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** - Interactive charts, graphs, and data visualizations
- **Campaign Creation Workflow** - Step-by-step campaign setup with platform verification
- **PDF Report Generation** - Professional campaign reports with charts and insights

### 🛠️ Technical Capabilities

- **Modern React Architecture** - Uses React 19+ with functional components and hooks
- **Advanced Data Visualization** - Recharts integration for interactive charts and graphs
- **Responsive Design** - TailwindCSS for beautiful, responsive UI components
- **Real-time Filtering** - Dynamic data filtering by platforms, date ranges, and metrics
- **Export Functionality** - PDF generation with charts and comprehensive analytics
- **Mock Authentication** - Demonstrates login/logout workflow
- **Client-side Routing** - React Router for seamless navigation

## 🌟 Key Features Demonstrated

### 📈 Dashboard Analytics

- **Campaign Overview Cards** - Visual summary of all active, completed, and scheduled campaigns
- **Sentiment Visualization** - Color-coded sentiment bars and percentage breakdowns
- **Platform Performance** - Multi-platform engagement and reach comparisons
- **Engagement Metrics** - Likes, comments, shares, and view tracking

### 🎨 Campaign Reports

- **Sentiment Over Time** - Line charts showing sentiment trends throughout campaign duration
- **Content Type Analysis** - Performance breakdown by content type (Reels, Stories, Posts, Videos, Livestreams)
- **Platform Comparison** - Side-by-side platform performance analysis
- **Word Cloud Visualization** - Tag cloud showing trending keywords and hashtags
- **Audience Demographics** - Geographic and demographic breakdowns
- **Influencer Leaderboards** - Top performer rankings and statistics

### 📱 Post Management

- **Individual Post Tracking** - Detailed view of each social media post's performance
- **Platform-Specific Metrics** - Tailored analytics for each social platform
- **Content Preview** - Visual post previews with engagement data
- **Sentiment Classification** - AI-powered sentiment analysis for each post

### 🎯 Campaign Creation

- **Multi-Step Workflow** - Guided campaign setup process
- **Platform Selection** - Choose target social media platforms
- **Budget Management** - Campaign budget allocation and tracking
- **Influencer Management** - Add and manage campaign influencers
- **Account Verification** - Platform account verification system

### 📊 Advanced Analytics

- **Viral Coefficient Tracking** - Measure content virality and reach expansion
- **Completion Rate Analysis** - Campaign goal achievement metrics
- **Hashtag Performance** - Trending hashtag analysis with usage statistics
- **Geographic Insights** - Audience location and sentiment by region
- **Age Demographics** - Audience age group analysis with engagement patterns

## 🏗️ Technical Stack

### Frontend Technologies

- **React 19.1.0** - Latest React with improved performance and features
- **Vite 7.0.0** - Next-generation frontend build tool for fast development
- **TailwindCSS 4.1.11** - Utility-first CSS framework for rapid UI development
- **React Router 7.6.2** - Declarative routing for React applications

### Data Visualization

- **Recharts 3.0.2** - Composable charting library built on D3
- **Chart.js 4.5.0** - Chart generation for PDF exports
- **React TagCloud 2.3.3** - Word cloud visualization component

### PDF Generation

- **jsPDF 3.0.1** - Client-side PDF generation
- **jsPDF AutoTable 5.0.2** - Table generation for PDF reports
- **html2canvas 1.4.1** - HTML to canvas conversion for chart exports

### UI Enhancement

- **Lucide React 0.525.0** - Beautiful hand-crafted SVG icons
- **React DOM 19.1.0** - React DOM rendering library

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn package manager

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd sentrac
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to view the application

## 📱 How to Use the Demo

### 1. **Dashboard Navigation**

- View campaign overview cards with sentiment analysis
- Filter campaigns by status (Active, Completed, Scheduled)
- Click on campaigns to view detailed reports

### 2. **Campaign Reports**

- Access detailed analytics for each campaign
- Use platform filters to focus on specific social media channels
- Export comprehensive PDF reports with charts and insights
- Explore sentiment trends over time
- Analyze influencer performance and hashtag effectiveness

### 3. **Post Management**

- Browse individual posts from campaigns
- View detailed engagement metrics for each post
- Filter posts by platform or sentiment
- Access post-specific analytics and performance data

### 4. **Campaign Creation**

- Start new campaigns with the step-by-step wizard
- Select target platforms and configure settings
- Add influencers and verify social media accounts
- Set campaign budgets and objectives

## 🎨 Design Highlights

### Visual Design

- **Modern Gradient UI** - Purple to pink gradient theme throughout
- **Glassmorphism Effects** - Backdrop blur and transparency effects
- **Smooth Animations** - Hover effects and transitions for enhanced UX
- **Responsive Layout** - Mobile-first design that works on all devices

### Data Visualization

- **Interactive Charts** - Hover effects and dynamic data display
- **Color-Coded Metrics** - Intuitive color schemes for different sentiment types
- **Progressive Data Loading** - Smooth data transitions and updates
- **Multi-format Charts** - Line charts, bar charts, pie charts, and custom visualizations

## 🔧 Development Features

### Code Quality

- **ESLint Configuration** - Comprehensive linting rules for code quality
- **Modern JavaScript** - ES6+ features and modern React patterns
- **Component Architecture** - Reusable, modular component design
- **Performance Optimization** - Efficient rendering and state management

### Build & Deployment

- **Vite Build System** - Fast development and optimized production builds
- **Hot Module Replacement** - Instant updates during development
- **GitHub Pages Ready** - Configured for easy deployment to GitHub Pages

## 📊 Sample Data

The demo includes comprehensive sample data showcasing:

- **4 Different Campaigns** spanning various industries (Fashion, Education, Holiday, Fitness)
- **Multiple Social Platforms** with realistic engagement metrics
- **Diverse Content Types** (Reels, Stories, Posts, Videos, Livestreams)
- **Global Audience Data** with geographic and demographic insights
- **Trending Hashtags** with usage statistics and sentiment scores
- **Influencer Profiles** with follower counts and engagement rates

## 🚀 Deployment

This project is configured for easy deployment to GitHub Pages:

```bash
npm install --save-dev gh-pages
npm run build
npm run deploy
```

For detailed deployment instructions, see the deployment guide in the project documentation.

## 🎯 Use Cases

This demo is perfect for showcasing:

- **Social Media Analytics Platforms**
- **Marketing Campaign Management Tools**
- **Sentiment Analysis Applications**
- **Influencer Marketing Platforms**
- **Social Media Monitoring Solutions**
- **Brand Reputation Management Systems**

**Built using React, TailwindCSS, and modern web technologies**

_SenTrac demonstrates the power of modern web development for creating sophisticated analytics platforms that can handle complex data visualization and user interaction requirements._

Commit message:

refactor: rename project from SenTrac to SocialTrack and update related metadata across files

README.md, after:

# SocialTrack - Social Media Analytics Platform

## 🚀 Overview

**SocialTrack** is a comprehensive social media analytics platform demo that showcases advanced data visualization, campaign management, and sentiment analysis capabilities. This React-based application demonstrates how modern web technologies can be used to create sophisticated analytics dashboards for social media marketing campaigns.

![SocialTrack Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react)
![Analytics](https://img.shields.io/badge/Analytics-Sentiment%20Analysis-8B5CF6?style=for-the-badge)
![Charts](https://img.shields.io/badge/Charts-Recharts-FF6B6B?style=for-the-badge)

## 📊 What This Demo Demonstrates

SocialTrack is a full-featured social media campaign analytics platform that showcases:

### 🎯 Core Business Features

- **Multi-Platform Campaign Management** - Track campaigns across Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn
- **Real-Time Sentiment Analysis** - Advanced sentiment tracking with positive, neutral, and negative classifications
- **Influencer Performance Monitoring** - Track individual influencer contributions and engagement metrics
- **Comprehensive Analytics Dashboard** - Interactive charts, graphs, and data visualizations
- **Campaign Creation Workflow** - Step-by-step campaign setup with platform verification
- **PDF Report Generation** - Professional campaign reports with charts and insights

### 🛠️ Technical Capabilities

- **Modern React Architecture** - Uses React 19+ with functional components and hooks
- **Advanced Data Visualization** - Recharts integration for interactive charts and graphs
- **Responsive Design** - TailwindCSS for beautiful, responsive UI components
- **Real-time Filtering** - Dynamic data filtering by platforms, date ranges, and metrics
- **Export Functionality** - PDF generation with charts and comprehensive analytics
- **Mock Authentication** - Demonstrates login/logout workflow
- **Client-side Routing** - React Router for seamless navigation

## 🌟 Key Features Demonstrated

### 📈 Dashboard Analytics

- **Campaign Overview Cards** - Visual summary of all active, completed, and scheduled campaigns
- **Sentiment Visualization** - Color-coded sentiment bars and percentage breakdowns
- **Platform Performance** - Multi-platform engagement and reach comparisons
- **Engagement Metrics** - Likes, comments, shares, and view tracking

### 🎨 Campaign Reports

- **Sentiment Over Time** - Line charts showing sentiment trends throughout campaign duration
- **Content Type Analysis** - Performance breakdown by content type (Reels, Stories, Posts, Videos, Livestreams)
- **Platform Comparison** - Side-by-side platform performance analysis
- **Word Cloud Visualization** - Tag cloud showing trending keywords and hashtags
- **Audience Demographics** - Geographic and demographic breakdowns
- **Influencer Leaderboards** - Top performer rankings and statistics

### 📱 Post Management

- **Individual Post Tracking** - Detailed view of each social media post's performance
- **Platform-Specific Metrics** - Tailored analytics for each social platform
- **Content Preview** - Visual post previews with engagement data
- **Sentiment Classification** - AI-powered sentiment analysis for each post

### 🎯 Campaign Creation

- **Multi-Step Workflow** - Guided campaign setup process
- **Platform Selection** - Choose target social media platforms
- **Budget Management** - Campaign budget allocation and tracking
- **Influencer Management** - Add and manage campaign influencers
- **Account Verification** - Platform account verification system

### 📊 Advanced Analytics

- **Viral Coefficient Tracking** - Measure content virality and reach expansion
- **Completion Rate Analysis** - Campaign goal achievement metrics
- **Hashtag Performance** - Trending hashtag analysis with usage statistics
- **Geographic Insights** - Audience location and sentiment by region
- **Age Demographics** - Audience age group analysis with engagement patterns

## 🏗️ Technical Stack

### Frontend Technologies

- **React 19.1.0** - Latest React with improved performance and features
- **Vite 7.0.0** - Next-generation frontend build tool for fast development
- **TailwindCSS 4.1.11** - Utility-first CSS framework for rapid UI development
- **React Router 7.6.2** - Declarative routing for React applications

### Data Visualization

- **Recharts 3.0.2** - Composable charting library built on D3
- **Chart.js 4.5.0** - Chart generation for PDF exports
- **React TagCloud 2.3.3** - Word cloud visualization component

### PDF Generation

- **jsPDF 3.0.1** - Client-side PDF generation
- **jsPDF AutoTable 5.0.2** - Table generation for PDF reports
- **html2canvas 1.4.1** - HTML to canvas conversion for chart exports

### UI Enhancement

- **Lucide React 0.525.0** - Beautiful hand-crafted SVG icons
- **React DOM 19.1.0** - React DOM rendering library

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn package manager

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd socialtrack
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:5173` to view the application

## 📱 How to Use the Demo

### 1. **Dashboard Navigation**

- View campaign overview cards with sentiment analysis
- Filter campaigns by status (Active, Completed, Scheduled)
- Click on campaigns to view detailed reports

### 2. **Campaign Reports**

- Access detailed analytics for each campaign
- Use platform filters to focus on specific social media channels
- Export comprehensive PDF reports with charts and insights
- Explore sentiment trends over time
- Analyze influencer performance and hashtag effectiveness

### 3. **Post Management**

- Browse individual posts from campaigns
- View detailed engagement metrics for each post
- Filter posts by platform or sentiment
- Access post-specific analytics and performance data

### 4. **Campaign Creation**

- Start new campaigns with the step-by-step wizard
- Select target platforms and configure settings
- Add influencers and verify social media accounts
- Set campaign budgets and objectives

## 🎨 Design Highlights

### Visual Design

- **Modern Gradient UI** - Purple to pink gradient theme throughout
- **Glassmorphism Effects** - Backdrop blur and transparency effects
- **Smooth Animations** - Hover effects and transitions for enhanced UX
- **Responsive Layout** - Mobile-first design that works on all devices

### Data Visualization

- **Interactive Charts** - Hover effects and dynamic data display
- **Color-Coded Metrics** - Intuitive color schemes for different sentiment types
- **Progressive Data Loading** - Smooth data transitions and updates
- **Multi-format Charts** - Line charts, bar charts, pie charts, and custom visualizations

## 🔧 Development Features

### Code Quality

- **ESLint Configuration** - Comprehensive linting rules for code quality
- **Modern JavaScript** - ES6+ features and modern React patterns
- **Component Architecture** - Reusable, modular component design
- **Performance Optimization** - Efficient rendering and state management

### Build & Deployment

- **Vite Build System** - Fast development and optimized production builds
- **Hot Module Replacement** - Instant updates during development
- **GitHub Pages Ready** - Configured for easy deployment to GitHub Pages

## 📊 Sample Data

The demo includes comprehensive sample data showcasing:

- **4 Different Campaigns** spanning various industries (Fashion, Education, Holiday, Fitness)
- **Multiple Social Platforms** with realistic engagement metrics
- **Diverse Content Types** (Reels, Stories, Posts, Videos, Livestreams)
- **Global Audience Data** with geographic and demographic insights
- **Trending Hashtags** with usage statistics and sentiment scores
- **Influencer Profiles** with follower counts and engagement rates

## 🚀 Deployment

This project is configured for easy deployment to GitHub Pages:

```bash
npm install --save-dev gh-pages
npm run build
npm run deploy
```

For detailed deployment instructions, see the deployment guide in the project documentation.

## 🎯 Use Cases

This demo is perfect for showcasing:

- **Social Media Analytics Platforms**
- **Marketing Campaign Management Tools**
- **Sentiment Analysis Applications**
- **Influencer Marketing Platforms**
- **Social Media Monitoring Solutions**
- **Brand Reputation Management Systems**

**Built using React, TailwindCSS, and modern web technologies**

_SocialTrack demonstrates the power of modern web development for creating sophisticated analytics platforms that can handle complex data visualization and user interaction requirements._
